Release notes for 1.8 (#390)
okteto/docs: src/content/self-hosted/install/releases.mdx

---

## 1.8.0
10 May, 2023

### Features

> 

Reviewer: I'm missing also some mention to the new ingress controller that will be installed as part of Okteto in this version and how to keep using just one if customers wants

Author: this will be covered by @jpf-okteto PR

> - Add support for Kubernetes [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add support for Kubernetes [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md). This requires disabling the `podSecurityPolicy.enable` flag.
```

I think we can mention it here like this, link to the `before upgrade` section, and also include in the installation guide 👍

> - Add support for Kubernetes [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md)

Author: this is https://github.com/okteto/docs/pull/389 here so when the PR i will resolve conflicts and keep Pablos text regarding this

> - Add support for Kubernetes [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md)

Reviewer: Yeah, I was referring to that. My comment was to do something like we do in this PR: https://github.com/okteto/docs/pull/389. Upgrade to `1.25` is tricky and it requires a specific documentation or more things to comment. Maybe we can just remove this line from this PR and use the other Pr to refer to the `1.25` changes

> - Add support for Kubernetes [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md)

Author: solved and rebased from Pablos

- Support for custom [labels and annotations](self-hosted/administration/configuration.mdx#namespace) in ingresses managed by Okteto
- Upgraded the Okteto CLI version to [2.15.2](https://github.com/okteto/okteto/releases/tag/2.15.2)

> - Support for custom labels/annotations on every ingress created on dev environments[TBD](link to community)

Author: @pchico83 i saw at the issue there was a community post comming up for this but havent been able to find it, can you share the link so i can add it here? thnks

- Self-hosted will show by default an installation board
- Always use the baggage header for istio divert driver
- Remove the "email" field from the helm values file, since now the email is comming from the licence

> - PSA Okteto Admission Webhook for restrictive PSP emulation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added a new `unsupported` option: PSA Okteto Admission Webhook for restrictive PSP emulation. It is `disabled` by default
```

We could mention it like this assuming we want to mention it. I'm also on board with omitting it until it's brought out of the `unsupported` section 😄

> - PSA Okteto Admission Webhook for restrictive PSP emulation

Reviewer 3: This is an internal feature for Cloud, we shouldn't document it

> - Translate virtual service in okteto mutation webhook using an annotation

Author: i am not sure about how to express this change, which is from https://github.com/okteto/app/pull/6247 
i am changing it but i could use some help describing it

- Change from hash routing to proper browser history routing on the frontend app
- Catalog items are now sorted in the same way in both admin dashboard and deploy/redeploy modal
- Enable external resources to be destroyed from UI

> - External resources additional icons

Author: Updated and added the additional icons at the manifest reference 

cc: @rlamana @okteto/lake please review `src/content/reference/manifest.mdx`

> - External resources additional icons

Reviewer 4: Compared them with https://github.com/okteto/app/blob/b8cb7cfe31e3eb6c2436b82132aa12e076547f58/chart/okteto/templates/crds/external-resource-crd.yaml#L57-L62 and it seems that they are correct

### Bugfixes

> - When a namespace is going to sleeping state, ingress class for ingresses at that namespace will only change under activation of unsupported flag

Reviewer 3: Let's remove it

> - Custom endpoints annotation is now mapped with the correct service of an ingress

Author: i've mentioned the annotation. I dont see a specific page documenting this, other than https://www.okteto.com/docs/cloud/ssl/#customizing-the-endpoints-shown-in-the-okteto-ui

- Using personal repositories from Bitbucket is now possible as the the tilde is no longer forbidden from repositories name.
- Update proper link to external storage documentation in the isntallation dashboard
- Fixed text in the UI is garbled when the deployment fails to be destroyed
- Added service in the mutation webhook to include dev.okteto.com/namespace label to all external resources created or updated and also improved performance for query retrieving endpoints for a preview environment using that label
- Fix preview delete confirm modal stating "Delete namespace"
- Wrap the last tabs if the container is not wide enough
- Fix license resolve in userControl
- External Resources markdown code is displayed as inline item instead of a standalone row block  

> - Set `<html translate="no">` so the major translation extensions (the ones that respect this attribute) will take the attribute into account and prevent translations (and their DOM manipulation) to happen.

Author: I've rephrase it ... let me know if is better

- Don't let persistent spaces sleep from the UI admin dashboard
- Show endpoints coming from virtual services in the the Preview List view
- Fix Google OAuth working consistently
- Move cache headers from `meta` to nginx so `Cache-Control` headers are applied correctly
- Show "managed by" message only when adding a repository to previews and not when launching a developement environment
- Force non-breaking spaces for leading whitespace on logs

> - Fix panic when referer had trailing slash

Author: Changed it to `- Fix panic produced when deploying a repository with trailing slash`

### Deprecation Notice

- Support for Kubernetes [1.22](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.22.md) has been deprecated and will be removed in the next release.

### Features

- Kubernetes supported versions: [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md) ([upgrade guide](self-hosted/install/upgrade.mdx/#upgrade-to-kubernetes-125)), [1.24](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.24.md) and [1.23](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.23.md).
- Support for custom [labels and annotations](self-hosted/administration/configuration.mdx#namespace) in ingresses managed by Okteto.
- Upgraded the Okteto CLI version to [2.15.2](https://github.com/okteto/okteto/releases/tag/2.15.2)
  - Okteto CLI 2.15.2 enables the optimisation removed at Okteto CLI 2.14.3. Now we calculate a hash for a given commit with the info around the build.
- Self-hosted will now show an [installation setup guide](administration/dashboard/#installation) by default
- Support baggage header for istio divert driver

> - Remove the `email` field from the helm values file. It is is now provided by the license

Reviewer 5: this is an improvement more than a feature IMO

> - Divert virtual service transformation is now done at the mutation webhook by adding the annotation to the virtualservices

Reviewer 5: this is an improvement more than a feature IMO

> - The frontend app now uses proper browser history routing instead of hash routing

Reviewer 5: this is an improvement more than a feature IMO

> - Catalog items are now sorted in the same way in both the admin dashboard and a developer's deploy/redeploy modal

Reviewer 5: this is an improvement more than a feature IMO

- External resources can now be destroyed from the Okteto UI
- External resources now supports [additional icons](reference/manifest.mdx##icon-string-optional)

### Improvements

> - Added service in the mutation webhook to add the `dev.okteto.com/namespace` label to all external resources created or updated

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- All external services created or updated by Okteto will now have the `dev.okteto.com/namespace` label 
```

- Improved the performance of the query for retrieving endpoints for a preview environment using the `dev.okteto.com/namespace` label

### Bugfixes

- Custom endpoints annotation `dev.okteto.com/endpoints` is now mapped with the correct service of an ingress

> - Using personal repositories from Bitbucket is now possible as we've addressed an issue with restricted characters in repository names

Reviewer 5: if this enables a new scenario, can we put it as a feature or improvement?

Author: between the two, i am more on the improvement side. changed

- Fixed text in the UI is garbled when the deployment fails to be destroyed
- Fix preview delete confirm modal stating "Delete namespace"
- Tabs in the admin panel are now appropriately responsive for smaller screens and resolutions. The last tabs will now wrap properly

> - When a license is not found, an error will now be thrown in the Fatal log

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- When a license is not found, an error will now be logged
```

> - When a license is not found, an error will now be thrown in the Fatal log

Reviewer 5: Does this mean that we are making the license mandatory?

Author: @maroshii could you give me some feedback on this point? is for this https://github.com/okteto/app/pull/6209

- When a license is not found, an error will now be logged
- External Resources markdown code is now displayed as an inline item instead of a standalone row block  

> - Some translation extensions where breaking the UI, this has been fixed

Reviewer 6: Some will still break it. Not all translation extension respect the `translate` attribute.
Not sure how to rephrase it tho.

Reviewer 7: How about something like this? Not sure if we need to get into the details of _how_?
```suggestion
- Translation browser extensions causing blank screens due to modifying DOM
```

> - Persistent spaces can no longer be put to sleep from the admin dashboard

Reviewer 5: This should be an improvement or even feature

- Custom endpoints annotation `dev.okteto.com/endpoints` is now mapped with the correct service of an ingress
- Using personal repositories from Bitbucket is now possible as we've addressed an issue with restricted characters in repository names
- Update proper link to external storage documentation in the installation dashboard
- Fixed text in the UI is garbled when the deployment fails to be destroyed
- Fix preview delete confirm modal stating "Delete namespace"
- Tabs in the admin panel are now appropriately responsive for smaller screens and resolutions. The last tabs will now wrap properly
- When a license is not found, an error will now be thrown in the Fatal log
- External Resources markdown code is now displayed as an inline item instead of a standalone row block  
- Set `<html translate="no">` so the major translation extensions (the ones that respect this attribute) will take the attribute into account and prevent translations (and their DOM manipulation) to happen.
- Persistent spaces can no longer be put to sleep from the admin dashboard
- Show endpoints coming from virtual services in the Preview List view

> - Google OAuth now works consistently

Author: i0ve removed it since this was caused by the routing change which is introduced in this release

---

## 1.8.0
10 May, 2023

### Breaking changes

- The default value for the buildkit service session affinity is now `None`. To keep using `ClientIP` as `sessionAffinity` you need to set this value in your [buildkit configuration](self-hosted/administration/configuration.mdx#buildkit).

### Deprecation Notice

- Support for Kubernetes [1.22](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.22.md) has been deprecated and will be removed next release (1.9).

### Features

- Add support for Kubernetes [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md)
- Support for custom [labels and annotations](self-hosted/administration/configuration.mdx#namespace) in ingresses managed by Okteto
- Upgraded the Okteto CLI version to [2.15.2](https://github.com/okteto/okteto/releases/tag/2.15.2)
  - Okteto CLI 2.15.2 enables the optimisation removed at Okteto CLI 2.14.3. Now we calculate a hash for a given commit with the info around the build.

> - Self-hosted will now show an installation setup guide by default

Reviewer 3: Can we link to [this](https://www.okteto.com/docs/1.8/administration/dashboard/#installation)?

> - Always use the baggage header for istio divert driver

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Support baggage header for istio divert driver
```

- Divert virtual service transformation is now done at the mutation webhook by adding the annotation to the virtualservices
- The frontend app now uses proper browser history routing instead of hash routing
- Catalog items are now sorted in the same way in both the admin dashboard and a developer's deploy/redeploy modal
- External resources can now be destroyed from the Okteto UI
- External resources now supports [additional icons](reference/manifest.mdx##icon-string-optional)

### Improvements

- Added service in the mutation webhook to add the `dev.okteto.com/namespace` label to all external resources created or updated
- Improved the performance of the query for retrieving endpoints for a preview environment using the `dev.okteto.com/namespace` label

### Bugfixes

- When a namespace is going to sleeping state, ingress class for ingresses at that namespace will only change under activation of unsupported flag
- Custom endpoints annotation `dev.okteto.com/endpoints` is now mapped with the correct service of an ingress
- Using personal repositories from Bitbucket is now possible as we've addressed an issue with restricted characters in repository names

> - Update proper link to external storage documentation in the installation dashboard

Reviewer 3: It's the first time we ship the installation wizard, no need to document previous bugs

- Improved the performance of the query for retrieving endpoints for a preview environment using the `dev.okteto.com/namespace` label
- Support baggage header for istio divert driver
- Remove the `email` field from the helm values file. It is is now provided by the license
- Divert virtual service transformation is now done at the mutation webhook by adding the annotation to the virtualservices
- The frontend app now uses proper browser history routing instead of hash routing
- Catalog items are now sorted, by default, in the same way in both the admin dashboard and a developer's deploy/redeploy modal
- Using personal repositories from Bitbucket is now possible as we've addressed an issue with restricted characters in repository names
- Persistent spaces can no longer be put to sleep from the admin dashboard
- Improve text readability on deploy resources list

### Bugfixes

- Custom endpoints annotation `dev.okteto.com/endpoints` is now mapped with the correct service of an ingress
- Fix preview delete confirm modal stating "Delete namespace"
- Tabs in the admin panel are now appropriately responsive for smaller screens and resolutions. The last tabs will now wrap properly

> - When a license is not found, an error will now be logged

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

---

## 1.8.0
10 May, 2023

### Breaking changes

- The default value for the buildkit service session affinity is now `None`. To keep using `ClientIP` as `sessionAffinity` you need to set this value in your [buildkit configuration](self-hosted/administration/configuration.mdx#buildkit).

### Deprecation Notice

> - Support for Kubernetes [1.22](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.22.md) has been deprecated and will be removed next release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support for Kubernetes [1.22](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.22.md) has been deprecated and will be removed next release (1.9).
```

Assuming 1.9 is the correct version we're referencing here, I think it's helpful to explicitly call this out. Non-blocking suggestion though

### Features

- Add support for Kubernetes [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md)
- Support for custom [labels and annotations](self-hosted/administration/configuration.mdx#namespace) in ingresses managed by Okteto
- Upgraded the Okteto CLI version to [2.15.2](https://github.com/okteto/okteto/releases/tag/2.15.2)

> - Self-hosted will show by default an installation board

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Self-hosted will now show an installation setup guide by default
```

I think this was the intent of this item assuming it's referring to the lego installation feature. Someone please correct me if not 🙏

- Always use the baggage header for istio divert driver

> - Remove the "email" field from the helm values file, since now the email is comming from the licence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Remove the "email" field from the helm values file, since the email is now provided by the license
```

- PSA Okteto Admission Webhook for restrictive PSP emulation
- Divert virtual service transformation is now done at the mutation webhook by adding the annotation to the virtualservices

> - Change from hash routing to proper browser history routing on the frontend app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The frontend app now uses proper browser history routing instead of hash routing
```

> - Catalog items are now sorted in the same way in both admin dashboard and deploy/redeploy modal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Catalog items are now sorted in the same way in both the admin dashboard and a developer's deploy/redeploy modal
```

> - Enable external resources to be destroyed from UI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- External resources can now be destroyed from the Okteto UI
```

> - External resources [additional icons](reference/manifest.mdx##icon-string-optional)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- External resources now supports [additional icons](reference/manifest.mdx##icon-string-optional)
```

### Improvements

> - Added service in the mutation webhook to include `dev.okteto.com/namespace` label to all external resources created or updated and also improved performance for query retrieving endpoints for a preview environment using that label

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added service in the mutation webhook to add the `dev.okteto.com/namespace` label to all external resources created or updated
- Improved the performance of the query for retrieving endpoints for a preview environment using the `dev.okteto.com/namespace` label
```

This felt easier to read by splitting it into two separate entries and also felt necessary since it seems like two separate, note-worthy improvements.

Feel free to object if anyone disagrees 😄

### Bugfixes

- When a namespace is going to sleeping state, ingress class for ingresses at that namespace will only change under activation of unsupported flag
- Custom endpoints annotation `dev.okteto.com/endpoints` is now mapped with the correct service of an ingress

> - Using personal repositories from Bitbucket is now possible as the the tilde is no longer forbidden from repositories name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Using personal repositories from Bitbucket is now possible as we've addressed an issue with restricted characters in repository names
```

- Update proper link to external storage documentation in the installation dashboard
- Fixed text in the UI is garbled when the deployment fails to be destroyed
- Fix preview delete confirm modal stating "Delete namespace"

> - Tabs at the admin panel are now accesible when screen is not wide enough. The last tabs will wrap if the container is not wide enough.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Tabs in the admin panel are now appropriately responsive for smaller screens and resolutions. The last tabs will now wrap properly
```

> - When license is not found, throw an error though Fatal log

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When a license is not found, an error will now be thrown in the Fatal log
```

> - External Resources markdown code is displayed as inline item instead of a standalone row block  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- External Resources markdown code is now displayed as an inline item instead of a standalone row block  
```

- Set `<html translate="no">` so the major translation extensions (the ones that respect this attribute) will take the attribute into account and prevent translations (and their DOM manipulation) to happen.

> - Don't let persistent spaces sleep from the UI admin dashboard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Persistent spaces can no longer be put to sleep from the admin dashboard
```

> - Show endpoints coming from virtual services in the the Preview List view

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Show endpoints coming from virtual services in the Preview List view
```

> - Fix Google OAuth working consistently

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Google OAuth now works consistently
```

- Move cache headers from `meta` to nginx so `Cache-Control` headers are applied correctly
- Show "managed by" message only when adding a repository to previews and not when launching a developement environment
- Force non-breaking spaces for leading whitespace on logs
- Fix panic produced when deploying a repository with trailing slash

> - Add disable state to external resources when this is being destroyed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add disable state to external resources when being destroyed
```
